Documentations/configuration.md, before:


# Tips

## Using the correct resolution

This project is based on a 1080 x 1920 resolution 

To view the website on this resolution use the inspect tool by pressing right click on website

![Inspect image](images/inspectImg.png)

Then click on this icon to change to your desired resolution

![Res image](images/click.png)

Then change to the right resolution

![Input image](images/resInput.png)

## data-interval
```
data-interval="10000" determines how many milliseconds have to pass before it changes to the next slide, 10000ms is 10 seconds
```

## id
 
 ```
id="productImage" is only used to position images.
The id for dot.png and money-dot.png is recommended to be used for all slides as they position the purple bubbles with the price on.
Id:s that are used to position a product can be created and adjusted but make sure that the whole image is within the bubble.
Make sure that the product's id has "z-index: 1;" so that it is on the correct layer. 

id="itemText" is used to position the text and to put the text on the top layer.
This should not be changed although depending on the length of the text a new id may be necessary.
Make sure that the price is always in the bubble.
```

Commit message:

Add instructions on developer controls
Co-Authored-By: Ambjorn-Hogmark <142985496+Ambjorn-Hogmark@users.noreply.github.com>

Documentations/configuration.md, after:


# Tips

## Using the correct resolution

This project is based on a 1080 x 1920 resolution 

To view the website on this resolution use the inspect tool by pressing right click on website

![Inspect image](images/inspectImg.png)

Then click on this icon to change to your desired resolution

![Res image](images/click.png)

Then change to the right resolution

![Input image](images/resInput.png)

## Developer controls
Controls used to change between slides

* To use the developer controls click the right or left side of the screen

* When the developer controls have been activated by clicking, arrow keys can also be used.

## data-interval
```
data-interval="10000" determines how many milliseconds have to pass before it changes to the next slide, 10000ms is 10 seconds
```

## id
 
 ```
id="productImage" is only used to position images.
The id for dot.png and money-dot.png is recommended to be used for all slides as they position the purple bubbles with the price on.
Id:s that are used to position a product can be created and adjusted but make sure that the whole image is within the bubble.
Make sure that the product's id has "z-index: 1;" so that it is on the correct layer. 

id="itemText" is used to position the text and to put the text on the top layer.
This should not be changed although depending on the length of the text a new id may be necessary.
Make sure that the price is always in the bubble.
```
